# Designing an Automatic Contactless Door with Temperature Detection and Sanitation System for Covid-19

PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Due to the current Covid-19 pandemic situations, the world is in a state of emergency. The coronavirus disease has recently spread to over 200 countries, causing a pandemic. It has affected billions of people and, resulted in numerous deaths. Due to the widespread nature of this virus, precautions must be taken, particularly in public places where people are in the majority. Because the number of people in public places is so large, manually checking and monitoring everyone, as well as the demand for sanitation, is a difficult task. Thus, a system is made into existence which detects the person’s temperature and opens the door to enter in. The person was first detected by a PIR sensor. "No Detection" is displayed, if no motion is detected. The MLX90614 Sensor reads the temperature, once motion is detected. This prototype's principal sensor is the MLX90614 Non - contact Temperature Sensor. Its unique feature is that it detects the body temperature, without using any contact. Following the taking of the person's temperature, the person is directed to the hand sanitation system, which displays "Sanitize Your Hands." An IR sensor and a pump are installed in this structure. The IR Sensor detects hand gestures and the pump releases the sanitizer. The system will open the door automatically, if the temperature is below 37°C. After a few seconds, the system even closes the door on its own. On the LCD display, it now says "Temperature: _ _*c," "Go In" and "You Are Welcome." message. As a result, the process continues with more people. If your temperature rises above 37°C, the system will sound an alarm and display a "Keep Out!" message on the display, indicating that you have a temperature. No one will be allowed to enter if you have a temperature. When a person leaves the room, an IR sensor detects the movement and immediately opens the door. The door closes automatically after a few seconds, making the device totally contactless. A switch is installed inside the room, in case of an emergency, which opens the entrance to exit the room. As a result, this system is fully contactless, reducing close touch with other people or surfaces. As a result, this project focuses on eliminating manual effort in public locations to check people's temperatures and sanitize their hands. Consequently, during these pandemic days, our strategy ensures that everyone is safe.


CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY

The Coronavirus spread quickly, around the world and has now become a pandemic. It is thought to be a virus that is still developing. The virus was formerly assumed to be spread by respiratory droplets and aerosols from one person to another. Anyone who came into contact with the virus-infected person's respiratory droplets is at risk of contracting it.  There is also the possibility of transmission through asymptomatic people. Another potential source of Covid-19 viral transmission has been discovered: indirect and direct contact with contaminated surfaces. Body temperature measurement has been considered as one of the most important monitoring and diagnosis indicators for Covid-19. Because fever is one of the indicators that might be used to diagnose an illness, several governments have restricted access to people who show signs of fever. Because Coronavirus produces an increase in body temperature, it is tested at the entrance level of every office building, institution, shop, and so on to determine the presence of the Covid-19 virus. The recommendations for fever monitoring vary a lot depending on the national, regional, and municipal governments. Most of these recommendations and guidelines, for example, include periodic temperature measurement. Humans are assigned to this task of checking the person's temperature. It is not safe for humans because it requires human intervention and takes a long time to check numerous people's body temperatures. There's also the possibility of catching Covid-19, who is keeping track of everyone's temperature. Covid-19 also spreads by contact with surfaces; many people used to touch the door handle to open or close it, which could lead to the virus spreading. So, a system is built to automate the process of checking the temperature of a person's body, and it unlocks the door for you if your temperature is normal. A sanitation system has also been installed, which dispenses hand sanitizer. As a result, this project implies that this research could assist people in effectively preventing the spread of Covid-19. Consequently, the Covid-19 virus will not spread through this system because no manual labour is required. The MLX90614 Contactless Temperature Sensor was used in this prototype to make it entirely contactless. Furthermore, the presence of a hand sanitising system ensures that your hands are sanitised. Without any manual assistance, this prototype will monitor the temperature of the human body. This prevents the spread of Covid-19 by keeping sick persons out of a region. Since temperature monitoring is required during this pandemic, it can be done at entry points such as hospitals, offices, schools, colleges, railway stations, airports, industries, and other public places. It can also be done on public transportation, such as buses, trains, and other forms of transportation. This structure can also be installed in homes to protect your family from a pandemic.
